In the last lesson
we have successfully added new feature to our application
that allows us to create new question
We've learned how to build a form
we've learn how to implement form validation to validate the question
and we've also learn how to save the valid question into our database.
Now in this lesson we'll continue building our project and extending the functionality of the question
form so that we can also update any existing questions.
All right as always.
let's isolate our work to a new branch.
So let's go ahead and open our terminal
And here we can say git
checkout -b and the brand name
Lesson 9
OK
firstly we need to add edit link on the question item. And here I think it would be better to place it on
the right side
of the question title this almost the same thing as we did here.
So let's head over to our editor
open index.blade.php
and jump to media body.
And then here let's define a new div
and give it two classes d-flex align items
center
let's move the question title here.
And here we'll place the link on the right site.
So let's define another div
and give it a class ml-auto or margin left
auto
and inside this div, let's define an anchor
the href will be
route question
edit and then pass in the question Id
give it some classes
`btn` and than `btn-sm` to make it a little smaller then `btn-outline-info`.
And the text will be edit
save that and reload to page.
Now here we have the edit button appear on each question
Actually, this shouldn't be happened. Because, that means everyone that has signed in can modify any questions
that belonging by anyone else
right? For now we'll leave this issue, and in the future lesson we'll fix that by implementing authorization
to every single question, so that only the owner of the question that able to modify.
All right now if we click this of course we all got a blank page.
So let's go back to our editor
open questions controller
an go to edit method
Here if we notice in the url we pass id of the Question
But here in the `edit` method, it's type-hinted to Question model.
So, by doing this, Laravel will automatically inject the Question model instance that has an ID
matching the corresponding value from the request uri.
But if it's not found in the database then it will return 404 error.
So it's similar with this
edit id
And then here we'll we find the question by id like this
But here we simplify that by type-hint the parameter with Question model
So here we can return view
questions dot
edit and then we pass in the question object
OK here we return questions.edits view
so let's create that file. Actually let's open questions create.blade.php and latter we will duplicate this file
and we'll save it as edit.blade.php
But before we do that we need to put the form inputs as well as the submit button into separate file
or partial file because when we create new question or edit the question we will be have the same form
elements but the differences could be in title, text of the button, form action and method.
So let's collapse all from groups
actually we'll
also need to move
The cscf blade directive so select these cut
and inside questions
folder let's create new file
_form.blade.php again the underscore in the front of the file name is not necessary but
it just to indicate that the file is partial file and it needs to be included in other view. OK here
Just paste them in
and since this file will be shared to create an edit file
that's why we'll need to make the submit button's text dynamic.
So
let's change this
to
button text
now in that create.blade.php
We can call the _form.blade.php file by saying at include
questions dot underscore form. In here
we can also pass in the data to this partial view by specifying it in the second parameter.
So in this case we'll pass array contains buttonText as a key and then the value will be ask question
OK
Save all these
and let's see if everything is still working
back to all questions
And click ask questions button
Alright
It's working as it was.